**Project Completion Details:**

1. To create a VPC (Virtual Private Cloud) on AWS I used the VPC creation wizard. To access this, I went to ***AWS -> Services -> VPC -> Your VPCs.*** I then followed to prompts from the Wizard giving my VPC the name RUBY-VPC and the IPv4 CIDR 10.0.0.0/24. 

2. A subnet is a range of IP addresses within your VPC that allows you to connect resources locally or from the internet. Use a public subnet for internet resources and a private subnet for local resources that won’t require internet connectivity. To create a subnet, I went to ***AWS -> Services -> VPC -> Subnets.*** I then clicked the *Create Subnet* button to access the wizard, and I setup a subnet with the IPv4 CIDR 10.0.0.0/28 and I named this subnet RUBY-Subnet. 

3. An internet gateway is a gateway to enable communications between your VPC and the internet. To create an internet gateway, I went to ***AWS -> Services -> VPC -> Internet Gateways.*** I then named my gateway RUBY-gw and moved on to creating my route table.**  

4. A route table is a set of rules that determines where network traffic is sent (or routed). To create a route table I went to ***AWS -> Services -> VPC -> Route Tables.*** Once there I clicked Create route table to open the creation wizard which allowed me to name my subnet (RUBY-Subnet) and specify which VPC it was connected to (RUBY-VPC). Once done in the wizard I was able to right click on my newly created route table and select *Edit subnet associations* to associate this route table with my recently created subnet (RUBY-Subnet). After associating this route table with my subnet, I was able to associate it with the internet in general by navigating to ***Routes*** -> ***Edit routes*** and creating a route with the following attributes:

 **Destination:** 0.0.0/0;
 **Target:** Internet Gateway / RUBY-gw
 
5. A security group acts as the network firewall which either allows or prevents connection based on rules set by the system admin. To create mine I navigated to ***AWS -> Services -> VPC -> Security Groups.*** I then clicked *Create Security Group* giving my security group the name RUBY-sg and connecting it to my VPC via the VPC lookup text box. I then created two inbound rules, one which allows traffic from Wright State connections (130.108.0.0), and one that allows connections from my private home network. 

6. An EC2 Instance is a virtual machine which can run a variety of operating systems. In creating mine for this project I chose the **AMI** (Amazon Machine Image) Ubuntu 20.04 because it is the operating system that I am most familiar with after Windows 10. For the next step I chose my instance type, based on which tier was free at that time. This machine isn’t being used for anything complex, so the most basic hardware allocation was favorable. In the next step I configured my instance by assigning my previously created subnet and VPC to this new instance. After that I used the default (cheapest) SSD possible in the storage settings and kept encryption disabled. I did this because storage prices can vary greatly, and I didn’t need much of it. I also didn’t need encryption for this project so that would have been an unnecessary resource to utilize. Next I configured my security group, by selecting the security group that I had already created in one of the previous steps. I then reviewed my selections and launched my instance. 
